README.md, before:

# buildbtw

A service for assisting Arch Linux staff with building new versions of packages.

## Roadmap

1. [Collect initial user stories](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/buildbtw/-/milestones/1)
1. [Build an exploratory PoC](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/buildbtw/-/milestones/2) to discover unknown unknowns and validate the approach we've planned
1. [Write RFC, outlining major components & architecture](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/buildbtw/-/milestones/3)
1. [Build and deploy MVP](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/buildbtw/-/milestones/4)
1. [Work on milestones one-by-one to improve the service](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/buildbtw/-/milestones)

The proof of concept will contain some code. This is only to gain a better understanding of the tradeoffs involved in the components and functionality we'll propose in the RFC. 

## Project Management

We're using the issue tracker for requirements and user stories. We're planning to use labels to allow filtering the issues:

- by priority: "must", "should", "could"
- by effort: XL, L, M, S
- by type: feature, bug, docs, refactor, ...

To provide a preliminary roadmap, we'll group issues in [milestones](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/buildbtw/-/milestones).

Information on prior art, technical background, feedback from user interviews and other notes are gathered in the [notes](./notes) folder. 

## FAQ

It's pronounced "buildbytheway".

Commit message:

Update README to reflect move from milestones to issues

README.md, after:

# buildbtw

A service for assisting Arch Linux staff with building new versions of packages.

## Roadmap

1. [Collect initial user stories](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/buildbtw/-/issues/7)
1. [Build an exploratory PoC](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/buildbtw/-/issues/3) to discover unknown unknowns and validate the approach we've planned
1. [Write RFC, outlining major components & architecture](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/buildbtw/-/issues/4)
1. [Build and deploy MVP](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/buildbtw/-/issues/5)
1. Iterate on the MVP to improve the service, writing new RFCs and requirements as needed

The proof of concept will contain some code. This is only to gain a better understanding of the tradeoffs involved in the components and functionality we'll propose in the RFC. 

## Project Management

We're using the issue tracker for requirements and user stories. We're planning to use labels to allow filtering the issues:

- by priority: "must", "should", "could"
- by effort: XL, L, M, S
- by type: feature, bug, docs, refactor, ...

We'll group issues using epics.

Information on prior art, technical background, feedback from user interviews and other notes are gathered in the [notes](./notes) folder. 

## FAQ

It's pronounced "buildbytheway".
